## 242  Valid Anagram

Easy

https://leetcode.com/problems/valid-anagram/description/

Given two strings `s` and `t`, return `true` *if* `t` *is an anagram of* `s`*, and* `false` *otherwise*.

 

**Example 1:**

```
Input: s = "anagram", t = "nagaram"
Output: true
```

**Example 2:**

```
Input: s = "rat", t = "car"
Output: false
```

 

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= s.length, t.length <= 5 * 104`
- `s` and `t` consist of lowercase English letters.

 

**Follow up:** What if the inputs contain Unicode characters? How would you adapt your solution to such a case?





1. **暴力，sort后是否相等？ nlogn**
2. **hash map ---> 统计自负个数**





## Solution

------

#### Approach #1 (Sorting) [Accepted]

**Algorithm**

An anagram is produced by rearranging the letters of s*s* into t*t*. Therefore, if t*t* is an anagram of s*s*, sorting both strings will result in two identical strings. Furthermore, if s*s* and t*t* have different lengths, t*t* must not be an anagram of s*s* and we can return early.

```java
public boolean isAnagram(String s, String t) {
    if (s.length() != t.length()) {
        return false;
    }
    char[] str1 = s.toCharArray();
    char[] str2 = t.toCharArray();
    Arrays.sort(str1);
    Arrays.sort(str2);
    return Arrays.equals(str1, str2);
}
```

**Complexity analysis**

- Time complexity : O(n \log n)*O*(*n*log*n*). Assume that n*n* is the length of s*s*, sorting costs O(n \log n)*O*(*n*log*n*) and comparing two strings costs O(n)*O*(*n*). Sorting time dominates and the overall time complexity is O(n \log n)*O*(*n*log*n*).
- Space complexity : O(1)*O*(1). Space depends on the sorting implementation which, usually, costs O(1)*O*(1) auxiliary space if `heapsort` is used. Note that in Java, `toCharArray()` makes a copy of the string so it costs O(n)*O*(*n*) extra space, but we ignore this for complexity analysis because:
  - It is a language dependent detail.
  - It depends on how the function is designed. For example, the function parameter types can be changed to `char[]`.

#### Approach #2 (Hash Table) [Accepted]

**Algorithm**

To examine if t*t* is a rearrangement of s*s*, we can count occurrences of each letter in the two strings and compare them. Since both s*s* and t*t* contain only letters from a-z*a*−*z*, a simple counter table of size 26 is suffice.

Do we need *two* counter tables for comparison? Actually no, because we could increment the counter for each letter in s*s* and decrement the counter for each letter in t*t*, then check if the counter reaches back to zero.

```java
public boolean isAnagram(String s, String t) {
    if (s.length() != t.length()) {
        return false;
    }
    int[] counter = new int[26];
    for (int i = 0; i < s.length(); i++) {
        counter[s.charAt(i) - 'a']++;
        counter[t.charAt(i) - 'a']--;
    }
    for (int count : counter) {
        if (count != 0) {
            return false;
        }
    }
    return true;
}
```

Or we could first increment the counter for s*s*, then decrement the counter for t*t*. If at any point the counter drops below zero, we know that t*t* contains an extra letter not in s*s* and return false immediately.

```java
public boolean isAnagram(String s, String t) {
    if (s.length() != t.length()) {
        return false;
    }
    int[] table = new int[26];
    for (int i = 0; i < s.length(); i++) {
        table[s.charAt(i) - 'a']++;
    }
    for (int i = 0; i < t.length(); i++) {
        table[t.charAt(i) - 'a']--;
        if (table[t.charAt(i) - 'a'] < 0) {
            return false;
        }
    }
    return true;
}
```

**Complexity analysis**

- Time complexity : O(n)*O*(*n*). Time complexity is O(n)*O*(*n*) because accessing the counter table is a constant time operation.
- Space complexity : O(1)*O*(1). Although we do use extra space, the space complexity is O(1)*O*(1) because the table's size stays constant no matter how large n*n* is.

**Follow up**

What if the inputs contain unicode characters? How would you adapt your solution to such case?

**Answer**

Use a hash table instead of a fixed size counter. Imagine allocating a large size array to fit the entire range of unicode characters, which could go up to [more than 1 million](http://stackoverflow.com/a/5928054/490463). A hash table is a more generic solution and could adapt to any range of characters.



## 第一次

用hash map的思想，把相同的字母映射到表的相同位置，这里用数组充当表，用字母与'a' 的差值当index就可以做到。